>> Kyle Simpson: Our goal
now is to jump right in, and
where we're going to start is
Chapter 1 of the up and going book.
So if you wanna follow along, again,
if you don't know js.com gets you to
the repo, and
if you wanna follow along with us,
essentially we're gonna
start from Chapter 1.
I'm not gonna read word for
word the book to you, but
i'm gonna try to distill the same
concepts that we deal with in the book.
We'll try to go through those things.
We'll take plenty of little mini breaks
after we've dealt with a concept or two,
we'll take a little breaks,
and we'll have some time for
you to practice these things.
There is no substitute for
you typing this in yourself,
either in your own code editor or
In the dev console of your browser.
Trying each one of these things
yourself is really important.
And that's true even if you already
come to the table with experience.
Don't just forsake the things and
say, I get that.
Definitely I encourage you to
follow along and participate.
So we start this book series, the Up And
Going book is conceptually
the first book of the series.
This is the place to start,
and it makes most sense to start
from literally the very beginning.
So for those of you that don't really
have a lot of programming experience,
let me try to dispel a couple of myths and
fill in a couple of details that
you may not have heard before.
So when people talk about programming,
when they talk about writing code,
essentially what they're talking
about is typing into a text file,
and that text file is referred
to as your source code.
Now, the source code is
a set of special words, and
phrases, and operators,
which are special characters.
They're designed to give instructions
to the computer on what to do.
But the symbols, and words, and phrases
that you put into that program are not
actually in a form that the computer
can directly understand,
it needs some assistance.
And so there is a step after you write
these instructions into a text file,
there is a step that comes along, and
it goes by different names depending
on the context that you're in.
But there's a step that essentially comes
along and converts the physical words,
the readable code, as we would say,
that you've written,
into a series of instructions that
the computer can actually understand.
And those instructions are in
the form of binary, the ones and
zeros strung together.
So the first observation that I would
make, and I think this is an important one
regardless of what level of
your experience in programming,
is that the source code that you
write is not really for the computer.
It's almost sort of a side artifact of
what the computer really cares about.
There's a special program on your
computer, a compiler, or an interpreter,
or something like that, that does care.
But the overall computer system
doesn't care about the source code.
And it is actually possible to
write a potentially infinite
different set of source code files that
when boiled down to those ones and
zeros would produce exactly
the same stream of ones and zeros.
So if you could literally write an
infinite number of different programs that
do the same thing for your computer,
then what difference does it
make what source code we write?
And that's the first big observation that
I'd like to make is that the difference is
that source code is not for
the computer, I mean, yes,
it's used by your compiler, but it's not
for the computer, it is for the developer.
It is for you to be able to
look at what you've done and
understand what your
program is intending to do.
And it is also for other developers,
people on your team, your future self,
if you come back six months later,
and you're looking at a program.
You want to write the code in such a way
that it not only does the correct thing,
but it also makes sense.
That's an often overlooked topic.
In fact, many times people come back after
having written a completely nonsensible
program and try to sprinkle
in bits of sensibility to it.
And I would encourage you to try to
strive to go in the opposite direction.
Try to write everything that you write
in such a way that your future self,
having no context and having completely
forgotten, having had many margaritas and
many nights of sleep since, that you could
go back and look at that line of code and
understand what it meant.
What was it intending to do?
What was its pros and its cons?
Don't assume, if you think, I know this
variable can only ever have numbers in it.
But if that's not obvious
from the line of code,
then that's an assumption that you've
made that isn't obvious in the code and
won't be obvious to another developer and
won't be obvious to your future self.
So it's incredibly important to approach
writing source code from the perspective
of the developer, more so
even than the perspective of the program.
Of course, you have to write
syntactically correct code,
you have to write code that works
the way the language expects.
And we'll spend plenty of time
talking about that in a moment.
But I did not wanna gloss over the fact
that the source code that you write is for
developers.
And there's lots of different things that
you can do, and it will be an ongoing
process, you will never completely master
the skill of writing sensible programs.
You can master the skill of
writing functional programs,
with given enough practice.
There's that old idiom,
like 10,000 hours of practice
makes you an expert or whatever.
I don't even know if that's true,
but if it were true in some
respect to programming,
it's possible to achieve a mastery over
the JavaScript programming language.
I do not think it's possible to achieve
a mastery of a writing sensible code in
JavaScript or in any other language.
It is something you have to work at,
it's something you have to try,
you have to practice,
you have to learn over periods of time.
And I consider myself
particularly not good at this.
Most of my effort in teaching
is not writing code,
but writing code that's more teachable.
And I struggle with that,
to be completely honest.
I struggle to figure out how
can I rearrange this in a way,
it's not just about what I call something,
but
how can I rearrange this in a way
that actually makes sense to people?
That fits the way our brains kind of
try to linearly process through stuff?
That's a difficult process, so
it's not something I can just
teach you as a road skill and
then you can be certified in it.
But it's something I would
encourage you to not gloss over it,
something that's very
important to try to do.
[COUGH] So I already have started
to skip over some things, so
let's fill in some gaps.
When we talk about writing source code,
there's a word that's
referred to which is syntax.
And in more formal terms, there's a set
of rules that put that syntax together,
and that set of rules
is called the grammar.
So the syntax and the grammar together,
fit together as how to
write a JavaScript program.
It will tell you what are the valid
combinations of characters,
the valid combinations of words
that you can put together
to do what you wanna do with your program.
So the syntax of a programming
language is much like the syntax for
English or
whatever your native tongue may be.
There are actual physical things that
you can do, there's punctuation marks
in the English Language, like the comma,
and the period, and the exclamation mark.
There are parts of phrases
that work together,
like a word used as a verb versus a word
used as a noun, those sort of things.
But the way you put those things
together into a phrase, and
then put phrases together and
make a sentence, that's called grammar.
And you maybe remember, back in school
you learned English grammar or whatever.
So there's a very similar
concept in programming.
Learning first the syntax and
then the rules of how to put the syntax
together to make a coherent, what we call,
statement, that's what we call grammar.
So I will put the word grammar and the
word syntax together from here on out, and
I'll just use the word syntax,
most people do.
But just so you understand, they're are
two different faces of the Rubik's Cube,
if you will,
they're different parts of the same thing.